Todor efcore ds (#2168)
telerik/reporting-docs: designing-reports/connecting-to-data/data-source-components/entitycoredatasource-component/configuring-the-database-connectivity-with-the-entitycoredatasource-component.md

---
title: Configuring the Database Connectivity
page_title: Configuring the Database Connectivity with the EntityCoreDataSource Component
description: "Learn how to configure the database connection used by the EntityCoreDataSource component in Telerik Reporting at design time and runtime."
slug: entitycoredatasource-configuring-database-connectivity
tags: entitycoredatasource,efcore,connectionstring,configuration,appsettings,designtime
tag: new
published: True
position: 3
reportingArea: General
---

# Configuring the Database Connectivity with the EntityCoreDataSource Component

This article explains how to specify the database connection used by the `EntityCoreDataSource` component so that the same `DbContext` works both at design time inside the report designer and at runtime in production.

## Why a Separate Connection String Is Often Required

> A typical EF Core `DbContext` reads its connection string from `appsettings.json` of the host application through `IConfiguration`. When the host is your own application, that file is loaded during report processing and the `DbContext` works as expected. When the host is the report designer (for example, the [Standalone Report Designer (.NET)](slug:telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/standalone-report-designer/overview)) the application's `appsettings.json` is not loaded and the connection string is no longer available.

Reviewer: Not sure mentioning "for example, the [Standalone Report Designer (.NET)", since the alternative is WRD, where this scenario is not applicable (it has access to the `appsettings.json`). Maybe change to "When the host is the Standalone Report Designer (.NET)..."

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the host is the Standalone Report Designer (.NET), the application's `appsettings.json` is not loaded and the connection string is no longer available. When the host is the Web Report Designer, `appsettings.json` is available, but the component instantiates the `DbContext` through reflection rather than dependency injection — so a `DbContext` that relies solely on injected `DbContextOptions` will also fail to connect.
```

> To overcome this, the `EntityCoreDataSource` component exposes a `ConnectionString` property. The configured value is forwarded to the `DbContext` constructor that accepts a `string` argument at processing time. The `DbContext` must therefore expose such a constructor, as shown in the following Code First sample:

Reviewer: I would explain here that the connection string can be configured in the wizards too, since it is the most common scenario for interacting with the `ConnectionString` property.

```suggestion
To overcome this, the `EntityCoreDataSource` component exposes a `ConnectionString` property. When configuring the data source in the Web Report Designer or the Standalone Report Designer, the wizard prompts for the connection string and stores it in the report definition. At processing time, the component forwards the value to the `DbContext` constructor that accepts a string argument. The `DbContext` must therefore expose such a constructor, as shown in the following Code First sample:
```

```CSharp
public class AppDbContext : DbContext
{
    public AppDbContext()
    {
    }

    public AppDbContext(string connectionString)
        : base(BuildOptions(connectionString))
    {
    }

    private static DbContextOptions<AppDbContext> BuildOptions(string connectionString)
    {
        return new DbContextOptionsBuilder<AppDbContext>()
            .UseSqlServer(connectionString)
            .Options;
    }
}
```

## Setting the ConnectionString Property

> Assign the connection string in code through either the property setter or the three-argument constructor:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set the connection string in code, use either the property setter or the three-argument constructor:
```

```CSharp
var dataSource = new Telerik.Reporting.EntityCoreDataSource
{
    Context = typeof(AppDbContext),
    ContextMember = "People",
    ConnectionString = "Server=.;Database=MSSQLLocalDB;Integrated Security=True;TrustServerCertificate=True"
};
```

```CSharp
var dataSource = new Telerik.Reporting.EntityCoreDataSource(
    "Server=.;Database=MSSQLLocalDB;Integrated Security=True;TrustServerCertificate=True",
    typeof(AppDbContext),
    "People");
```

> The wizard writes the value as an attribute on the `EntityCoreDataSource` element of the `.trdp` or `.trdx` definition. To centralize the value, store it in the configuration file of the report-hosting process and read it at startup before assigning it to the `ConnectionString` property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The wizard stores the value as an attribute on the `EntityCoreDataSource` element of the `.trdp` or `.trdx` definition. To centralize the value, store it in the configuration file of the report-hosting process and read it at startup before assigning it to the `ConnectionString` property.
```

Reviewer: If the main concern is embedding credentials in the XML definition, wouldn't it be better to mention the usage of shared connections instead? Something like "To avoid embedding credentials in the file, use a named connection instead...".

> > note Unlike the .NET Framework-era `EntityDataSource`, EF Core does not resolve named connection strings through `ConfigurationManager`. Always pass a fully-qualified connection string to the `ConnectionString` property.

Reviewer: Or wait, does it support named connections? "Always pass a fully-qualified connection string to the `ConnectionString` property." makes me think it doesn't, and in RS.NET it doesn't work indeed, although when I asked Copilot, it said it was a bug in WRD (should probably contact Niki about this, just in case).

```suggestion
> note Unlike the .NET Framework-era `EntityDataSource`, EF Core does not resolve named connection strings through `ConfigurationManager`. Always pass a full connection string to the `ConnectionString` property.
```

## Configuring the Designer Connection String

> For the [Data Explorer](slug:telerikreporting/designing-reports/report-designer-tools/desktop-designers/tools/data-explorer) and report preview to work in the desktop designers, store the design-time connection string with the report definition. For the Standalone Report Designer (.NET) this is typically a literal value set on the `EntityCoreDataSource` itself or a value loaded from the host application's `appsettings.json`. For the Web Report Designer the connection string is read from the host service that exposes the [Reporting REST Service](slug:telerikreporting/using-reports-in-applications/host-the-report-engine-remotely/telerik-reporting-rest-services/overview).

Reviewer: And this part suggests named connections are supported, which is a bit confusing (at least to me) given the "Always pass a full connection string to the `ConnectionString` property." from above.
